---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-06-14
title: VC WG Telco — 2021-06-14
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2021-06-14-vcwg",
        "name": "VC WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "VC WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-06-14",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2021-06-15",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "VC WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-06-14",
            "endDate": "2021-06-14",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Michael Kupjetz"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Chadwick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Markus Sabadello"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregory Natran"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gerhard Oosthuizen"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# VC WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-06-14

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2021Jun/0000.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/06/14-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Ivan Herman, Manu Sporny, Brent Zundel, David Chadwick, Michael Kupjetz, Kyle Den Hartog, Markus Sabadello, Gregory Natran, Gerhard Oosthuizen

**Regrets:** Daniel Burnett, Wayne Chang

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Michael Kupjetz, Brent Zundel

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** Agenda Review, Round of introductions, scope of this group and approximate timeline, issues and PRs (as in the repo)  

### 1. Welcome
{: #section1}

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Group's current charter](https://www.w3.org/2020/12/verifiable-credentials-wg-charter.html)

**Brent Zundel:** meeting once a month, or less - as per the charter, our timeline will come to an end December 2021  
… maintenance of the verifiable credentials model, fix bugs  
… what we will be submitting is a "proposed revision", updates to a recommendation - once ready it can be sent out for review  

**Ivan Herman:** new process for everyone, terms may differ but the idea is correct  

### 2. introductions
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** Introductions (go through the attendees list)  

**Michael Kupjetz:** I'm a colleague of Gregory's. I work on Digital Identity, more on technical side, but also on some standards stuff.  

**Ivan Herman:** Introduction  

**Gregory Natran:** Introduction  

**David Chadwick:** Introduction  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** Introduction  

**Manu Sporny:** Introduction  

**Markus Sabadello:** Introduction  

**Gerhard Oosthuizen:** Introduction  

**Brent Zundel:** before jumping into issues with PR - what are we hoping each member will contribute moving forward  
… members can contribute - pull requests, raise issues, comment on issues raised by others, propose specific changes to text of the recommendation  
… editors for the process are manu and kdenhartog  
… most of the work will happen between meetings, using GitHub  

### 3. Review vc-data-model Issue Classifications
{: #section3}

> *Brent Zundel:* See [relevant issue list](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc)

**Brent Zundel:** There are 56 open Issues - there are a number of labels attached, many marked "defer" (done by the original working group)  
… some Issues marked with "PossibleErratum", some are also marked with the "maintenance tag" (the fix is for the maintenance group)  
… Today - take Issues one at a time, and triage to determine if the labels are accurate - or if this should be addressed by the maintenance working group  

**Ivan Herman:** to specify for the group what "defer" means - if we recharter our working group later with more possibilities than we have here, we can pick up the deferred issues  

**David Chadwick:** question - what group decided on the classification ?  

**Brent Zundel:** many Issues previously classified by editors, other team members, previous groups  

#### 3.1. Define SHACL constraints 
{: #section3-1}

_See github issue [#76](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/76)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/76 -->



**Manu Sporny:** suggestion to defer Issue #76  

**Ivan Herman:** I have found some problems recently on the RDF aspect of the model, and there are some problems on how the data models are expressed - SHACL would reflect those - more to the topic than just editorial  

> *Manu Sporny:* I will add defer-v2

**Brent Zundel:** suggestion for new label, other than "deferred" for issues like @issue 76 - "deferv2"  

#### 3.2. Issuers may express a Time to Live on the credential 
{: #section3-2}

_See github issue [#164](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/164)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/164 -->



**Brent Zundel:** previous group felt it should be deferred  

> *Kyle Den Hartog:* +1 seems to be an extension at this point

**Manu Sporny:** Agree with brent that it should be deferred  

**Brent Zundel:** comment - a new feature, out of scope for the group  
… no objections - issue 164 marked deferred  

#### 3.3. 3 Types of Claims 
{: #section3-3}

_See github issue [#47](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/47)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/47 -->



**Brent Zundel:** recommending changes to the proof property  

**Manu Sporny:** we have asked for feedback, none has been received, recommended to close if not actioned  

#### 3.4. Holders and Identifiers 
{: #section3-4}

_See github issue [#105](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/105)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/105 -->



**Brent Zundel:** is this to resolve/fix a bug in the spec, or add to it?  

**David Chadwick:** there is ambiguity when subject does not equal holder  

**Brent Zundel:** describes an error which needs to be corrected - this issue can be labelled "Editorial"?  

**kdentartog:** a bug but not necessarily "fixable", should be part of "Editorial" - some changes to the text  

**Manu Sporny:** agreed, non-normative change - expectation of subject/holder/identifiers  

**Brent Zundel:** do we formally mark this as erratum?  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** agreed, believe it is  

**Manu Sporny:** the text no longer exists in the spec, may no longer be an issue  

**David Chadwick:** already some proposal in the issue, we could clarify in the text  

**Brent Zundel:** next steps - raising a PR which addresses concrete changes to the spec  

#### 3.5. Does pseudo-anonymity require the issuer to cooperate 
{: #section3-5}

_See github issue [#209](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/209)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/209 -->



> *Gerhard Oosthuizen:* Hi everyone. Unfortunately have to drop off. Nice meeting you. Will do some pre-reading of issues before our next session to be able to contribute more.

> *Kyle Den Hartog:* +1 to that Brent

> *Manu Sporny:* Agree with that text that brent just said

**Brent Zundel:** it would be appropriate to add text to the Zero Knowledge proofs section  

**David Chadwick:** maybe the scope of this issue is larger, to what extent can an issuer control the discloser a holder has  

**Brent Zundel:** assign brent to the issue, an idea of how to move forward with it  

**Manu Sporny:** agreed with the original text - but consider one use case: witness issuers  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to giving brent a shot at the text :)

**Gregory Natran:** in response to DavidC, caution to preventing users from disclosing, the information is theirs and there may be consequent issues with restrictions on the holder/subject  

**Brent Zundel:** to throw conversation into a new PR and can continue the discussion  
… anything that is not "deferv2" or "erratum" - please add a comment to the issue to describe what you feel the proper classification *should* be  

### 4. PRs
{: #section4}

> *Manu Sporny:* See [see list of PR-s](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls)

**Manu Sporny:** new PR review process for 2021 we need to agree on  

**Brent Zundel:** discuss where PRs will be merged to, direction of PRs, make a determination if we are going to merge or if review is needed  

**Manu Sporny:** there are 2 targets to merge to - version 1.1 branch - majority of work is targeted there  

> *Michael Kupjetz:* version 1.1 - small editorial changes, erratum

> *Michael Kupjetz:* version 2 - significant changes or upgrades

**Manu Sporny:** largely upcoming calls will focus on version 1.1 - open PR describing the process  

#### 4.1. Add PR review process for 2021 (pr vc-data-model#774)
{: #section4-1}

_See github pull request [#774](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/774)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/774 -->



**Manu Sporny:** Wayne's PR, some suggestion were made in the comment, they have not been processed  
… pr 774 is ready to go in, unless there are objections on this call  
… this is the agreed upon process, and has been out for review - suggest to merge  

**David Chadwick:** clarify - what is version 1.2 (in PRs)  

**Brent Zundel:** quick editorial changes are set for version 1.1 and can go out a.s.a.p. - substantial changes, bugs, etc. are in version 1.2  

> *Ivan Herman:* +1 to DavidC

> *Michael Kupjetz:* everything else in version 2

**Brent Zundel:** any question?  

**Manu Sporny:** will merge pr 774 once the update has been made, comment added  

#### 4.2. verificationMethod URI is incorrect in a couple of the examples (pr vc-data-model#772)
{: #section4-2}

_See github pull request [#772](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/772)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/772 -->



**Manu Sporny:** simple note classification from Ted, purely editorial  
… rewording some language related to "JWT claim"  

**Brent Zundel:** switch labels from "PossibleErratum" to "Errata"  
… note to the team - the labels work in some automated processes  

#### 4.3. (editorial) various clarified phrasings (pr vc-data-model#723)
{: #section4-3}

_See github pull request [#723](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/723)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/723 -->



**Manu Sporny:** various clarified "phrases" - related to "JWT claims"  
… some details need to be review to make sure this does not impact, after it is determined it may/may not be merged  
… pr 723 is ready to go  

### 5. AOB
{: #section5}

**Brent Zundel:** encourage team members to jump in and review the issues and labels  
… Thank you for attending the meeting - open to feedback from team members  

---
