---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-11-17
title: VC WG Telco — 2021-11-17
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2021-11-17-vcwg",
        "name": "VC WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "VC WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-11-17",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2021-11-18",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "VC WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-11-17",
            "endDate": "2021-11-17",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Kyle Den Hartog"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Logan Porter"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dmitri Zagidulin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Chadwick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregory Natran"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# VC WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-11-17

See also the [Agenda]() and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/11/17-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Kyle Den Hartog, Manu Sporny, Logan Porter, Dmitri Zagidulin, Shigeya Suzuki, Brent Zundel, David Chadwick, Gregory Natran

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Kyle Den Hartog

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** Our agenda is straightforward, we'll start off with vc data model wide review.  
… then move into triaging and processing of PRs and issues.  
… if we get through that all we'll move into V2 issues and PRs to process.  

**Manu Sporny:** quick touch on charter and mDL topic?.  

**Brent Zundel:** yeah we can do that after wide review.  

### 1. VC Data Model Wide Review.
{: #section1}

**Brent Zundel:** Our v1.1 has been published and wide review needs to happen. We've reached out to some of them already.  
… this is our first time going through this so we're learning as we go along.  
… this topic is about what needs to happen for this.  

**Manu Sporny:** I failed to send the wide review announcements and I forgot until just now. I can still do that.  
… we said we'd contact IMS global they no longer have a group from the looks of it.  
… and other folks, I'll give a try this week to take care of this.  

**Brent Zundel:** is there anything else require beyond contacting the AC list?.  
… I don't see anything else in the process document that calls for horizontal review.  
… so I think we're good.  

**Manu Sporny:** I don't see anything as a requirement for horizontal review either.  

**Brent Zundel:** How formal do we need to be about implementations for substantive changes?.  

**Manu Sporny:** We couldn't have transitioned without that implementation experience.  
… for example rfc 3339 wasn't ever tested and the substantive changes were about matching what was actually happening in implementations.  
… for the other substantive changes we were loosening requirements to support new capabilities such as ZKP allowing for more things.  

**Brent Zundel:** The process document specifically calls these "wide review" and I don't see any information about wide review being required in the process.  

### 2. VCWG recharter and mDL.
{: #section2}

**Brent Zundel:** Next we'll move to VCWG recharter and mDL.  

**Manu Sporny:** During TPAC Microsoft mentioned that it'd be interesting to see work around mDL and helping to integrate VCWG and mDL.  
… and 2 that there weren't APIs that were really designed to move mDLs back and forth.  
… we may want to put this work in scope for the VC 2.0 work as things we may look into (e.g. notes).  
… nothing standards track at this point.  
… purpose would be to support support in the mDL space.  

**David Chadwick:** I looked at the current ISO draft and VCs are referenced in an appendix now.  
… so it's good news and it's definitely going to end up in the standard now.  
… unfortunately I don't think I can send this draft to you at this point.  
… maybe there's a liaison agreement that we could use to share the draft with WG members.  
… have we considered putting in a request to be a liaison group?.  

**Manu Sporny:** the answer is yes it's already setup.  

**David Chadwick:** Then we may be able to see the current draft from ISO and share it only with WG members.  

**Gregory Natran:** quick question, do we see this being tied into the stuff happening with apple and states moving to drive licenses?.  
… Does this play in any sort of way?.  

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://www.w3.org/2020/12/verifiable-credentials-wg-charter.html](https://www.w3.org/2020/12/verifiable-credentials-wg-charter.html).

**Manu Sporny:** it's tangentially related, but yeah that's in the class of related things for the charter aspects we're considering.  
… the current charter lists the particular ISO group as a liaison.  
… yes we could have a very direct relationship with them and this would be intended to do more harmonization work.  
… this is good reason because we want to be able to officially respond to whats happening in that WG around VCs.  
… and we don't want to be on the outside on those discussions.  

**David Chadwick:** Just to clarify that the current Apple/mDL stuff isn't compatible with VCs.  
… that's not to say that if the next draft comes out then it may move that way.  

**Brent Zundel:** what are our next steps?.  

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/).

**Brent Zundel:** I've noted 3 changes that could be made to our current draft charter.  
… 1 and 3 are the same.  
… we have some current external orgs listed that we say we'll liaise with. We should add those to the draft charter since they're not there.  
… another is that we want to add another deliverable about mDLs as a note.  

**Manu Sporny:** I agree with your list brent.  
… we need to mention the liaise in the new drafts.  
… and we need to include some deliverable note about mDL interoperability.  
… we definitely don't want to say that this is a recommendation document.  

**Brent Zundel:** we should also add IMS global to the liaison groups for broad community review.  
… next topic is PR review.  

### 3. Review PRs.
{: #section3}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

**Brent Zundel:** here's the link for them.  
… unless folks really want to do #780 we'll skip it.  
… put yourselves on q if you want to discuss otherwise we'll move ahead.  

**Manu Sporny:** reminder to everyone that there was an email sent out to the list.  
… there was a lot of cleanup on main branch after cleaning up V1.1.  
… and now V1.1 is now the main branch.  
… and all editorial changes will be put on top of V1.1.  
… and when Jan 19th or whatever roles around then everything in the V1.1 branch can be immediately applied to the recommmendation after the publishing of V1.1 substantive changes.  

#### 3.1. Added intended audience, purpose, goals/non-goals (pr vc-data-model#814)
{: #section3-1}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#814](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/814)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/814 -->



**Brent Zundel:** I believe we discussed this last time.  
… we don't have any response from Michael Herman who raised the PR.  
… I think the consensus here is that without response from him that we should close this.  
… we have active changes requested and no response with no activity since September.  

**Manu Sporny:** How long do we wait for a non-response to close a PR?.  
… we've waited 7 days and standard wait time has been 14 days.  
… we re-ping him and see if there's any action plan for this.  

**Brent Zundel:** is there any issues with this course of action?.  

**David Chadwick:** can we add a pending close label on it?.  

**Brent Zundel:** yeah we can do that and I'll ping Michael Herman now.  
… pending close label added.  

**Manu Sporny:** we should also remove the other labels if you're ok with that.  

**Brent Zundel:** I'm good with leaving V1.1 editorial but we can remove `possibleErratum` label.  

**Manu Sporny:** Does Editorial label do anything for Errata document?.  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** No only `Errata` label affects that document.  
… I'm good with using only pending close, V1.1, v2.0, 14 day merge, `Errata`, and `possibleErratum` labels.  

#### 3.2. Add new Verifiable Credential views for example 4. (pr vc-data-model#834)
{: #section3-2}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#834](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/834)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/834 -->



**Brent Zundel:** the last thing we said is when a PR exists that addresses the problems. We'll take a look at that PR now.  
… then jump back to 817.  
… so 834 addresses 817 potentially so we'll take a look at this first.  

**Manu Sporny:** we now have a display for a variety of examples including bare credential, w/ ld proofs, and w/ JWT proofs.  
… the enhancements that people have asked for is better tabbing, highlighting active tabs, show intermediate form for JWTs.  
… they're all good asks and my suggestion is they're all enhancements and we can address them in other PRs.  
… this one addresses just example 4.  
… there's another PR which updates as many examples as possible.  
… those are in PR 835.  

**David Chadwick:** My suggestion is that we add another tab with the intermediate JWT tab.  
… I'm willing to do that as well.  
… I'd like to suggest that we add this intermediate tab as well.  

**Manu Sporny:** it's not as easy as just adding one.  
… these are all auto generated which requires coding it up.  
… it's a decent bit of work.  
… unless you already have something that can generate the intermediate form and I just didn't have the time to do that yet.  

**David Chadwick:** I thought this was hand done for each one.  

**Manu Sporny:** this is all available in the digitalbazaar/respec-vc repo.  
… I've got concerns about showing that, but I don't intend to block it.  
… it raises questions about how deep do we want to go around intermediate forms for other proof types as well.  
… so I don't want those discussions to block this PR from going forward for now.  

**Brent Zundel:** suggestion is that we work to merge this PR and raise issues for each of the specific enhancements we'd like to see.  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to the course of action brent just described..

**David Chadwick:** I see this intermediate format as examples is fundamental and very helpful.  
… particularly around the clarification stuff that we've seen for JWT encodings.  
… so these examples would help for further clarification.  
… let's not close this today. I want to spend some time to go ahead and take a look at this one.  
… our current work mode requires notifications to the CCG.  
… so a 14 day window from the notification should occur.  
… so there's a possibility that during that window requested changes will be made.  
… let's go ahead with the 14 day window and then I can take a look during that time.  

**Brent Zundel:** so now the question is have there been enough progress on 834 and 835 to close issue 817.  

**David Chadwick:** yes I'm happy with that.  

**Brent Zundel:** I'll leave it to the editors to update the labels and notify the CCG about the rest.  

#### 3.3. Add clarification about verifiability (pr vc-data-model#829)
{: #section3-3}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#829](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/829)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/829 -->



**Brent Zundel:** some review has occurred.  
… charles or TallTed are not here.  
… if anyone has comments please q.  
… the PR is quite straight forward.  

#### 3.4. add section in privacy considerations about issuer (pr vc-data-model#830)
{: #section3-4}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#830](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/830)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/830 -->



**Brent Zundel:** I raised this PR to add a section to privacy considerations.  
… to call out coordination by the issuer to participate in the process of this.  
… it also points out that in some cases the issuer is not deliberately subverting the privacy aspects when they're participating.  
… please give it a review and I think this one is ready for CCG review.  

**Manu Sporny:** My concern is that editors aren't being tagged on these.  
… I was surprise that we're not being tagged on this.  
… I'm wondering if we're missing a codeowners file.  

**Kyle Den Hartog:** reiterates what Manu said.  

**Brent Zundel:** Editors should be notified any time new PRs are being raised.  

**David Chadwick:** going back to the previous PR there were a few mistakes for the intermediate credential.  
… suggests some changes so that the intermediate value is correct around the issuer values.  

**Manu Sporny:** let's open an issue on this. There might be an issue of the understanding of what should happen on this.  

**David Chadwick:** I think we should block merging the other until we can resolve this.  

**Brent Zundel:** Can you open an issue to track the thing that needs to be resolved for this.  

**Manu Sporny:** I'm on it.  

#### 3.5. Clarification of JWT encoding (pr vc-data-model#828)
{: #section3-5}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#828](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/828)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/828 -->



**Brent Zundel:** This is yours David, there's been a couple requests for changes.  
… what's the current status of this.  

**David Chadwick:** In a private email with Orie I think we resolved the issues that he saw with it.  
… so I think we've resolved all the issues now.  

**Manu Sporny:** other than one normative change that needs to be undone.  

**Brent Zundel:** just need that last thing to be resolved and to get it labeled and notify CCG.  
… anything else on this PR before we close the meeting?.  
… note next week is thanksgiving so this meeting won't happen.  
… we'll have a meeting in 2 weeks at the same time as this one.  
… Thanks to everyone who's helped us make good progress on the spec.  
… briefly our status - it's likely our group charter will be admin extended.  
… because this group has been delayed by DID WG related items.  

---
