---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-11-10
title: VC WG Telco — 2021-11-10
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2021-11-10-vcwg",
        "name": "VC WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "VC WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-11-10",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2021-11-10",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "VC WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-11-10",
            "endDate": "2021-11-10",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "David Chadwick"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Julien Rossi"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dmitri Zagidulin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kevin Dean"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gregory Natran"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# VC WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-11-10

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/f8945c84-221d-4d9d-b21c-6e91685f3c38/20211110T110000#agenda) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/11/10-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Manu Sporny, Ivan Herman, Brent Zundel, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Julien Rossi, David Chadwick, Dmitri Zagidulin, Kevin Dean, Dave Longley, Gregory Natran

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** David Chadwick, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Introductions.
{: #section1}

> *David Chadwick:* Kevin Dean introduced himself.

> *David Chadwick:* Julien Rossi introduced himself.

### 2. VC Data Model Status.
{: #section2}

> *Manu Sporny:* VC v1.1 is out for public review: [https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2021Nov/0004.html](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2021Nov/0004.html).

> *Manu Sporny:* The published specification is here: [https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/REC-vc-data-model-20211109/](https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/REC-vc-data-model-20211109/).

> *Ivan Herman:* See [voting form](https://www.w3.org/2002/09/wbs/33280/vc-11-2021-corrections/).

**Manu Sporny:** the v1.1 is out for public review.  
… The advisory committee of 450+ companies have been asked to review it and vote.  
… The vote finishes in January.  
… Pattern review is also open.  

> *Manu Sporny:* The spec is marked up in this way to denote PROPOSED CORRECTIONS: [https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/REC-vc-data-model-20211109/#c1_1](https://www.w3.org/TR/2021/REC-vc-data-model-20211109/#c1_1).

**Manu Sporny:** we cannot push new editorial changes out until after January 18.  
… but we can put them into our editors draft.  

**Ivan Herman:** manu had to pay a heavy price for being the guinea pig for the new publication process.  
… so we should give him a huge vote of thanks.  

**Manu Sporny:** some of the new processes were documented but some not.  
… some W3C staff did not know the new procedures either e.g. wrt respec.  

> *Manu Sporny:* This would have been helpful before preparing the final v1.1 document: [https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/README#amendment](https://www.w3.org/StyleSheets/TR/2016/README#amendment).

> *Brent Zundel:* +1 to manu.

**Manu Sporny:** substantive changes now need to have special markup and we need to be careful to do this from now on..  
… editorial changes do not have this overhead.  

### 3. PR Review.
{: #section3}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

#### 3.1. Clarified subtitle of Data Model (pr vc-data-model#780)
{: #section3-1}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#780](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/780)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/780 -->



**Manu Sporny:** I prefer we close this PR and try again later.  

> *Dave Longley:* "Expressing verifiably authored data" is shorter.

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** it has been a lot of bike shedding because it is nuanced and getting this right is difficult.  

> *Manu Sporny:* Not a strong suggestion to close it.

> *Manu Sporny:* I feel like we need to transform it into an issue and go from there?.

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* "Expressing verifiably authored data" suggests that the statements within the VC are verifiably authored, not that the collection is....

> *Manu Sporny:* I'm fine w/ moving on as well.

#### 3.2. Added intended audience, purpose, goals/non-goals (pr vc-data-model#814)
{: #section3-2}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#814](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/814)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/814 -->



**Manu Sporny:** Michael said he would create a separate document to address his concerns.  
… we should close this PR once this new document is created.  

**David Chadwick:** I agreed to be the 2nd author w/ Michael on his proposed document, but I have not seen a new draft, haven't heard from him in a while..

**Brent Zundel:**  We don't want this to just sit either, been discussed several times in meetings w/ no progress..

**Dave Longley:** suggests we give this a time limit and then close it.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** we don't want to instigate unhelpful reactions.  

**Brent Zundel:** I will ping Michael and ask him when he might be able to move this forward.  

#### 3.3. Removing proofs from examples (pr vc-data-model#817)
{: #section3-3}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#817](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/817)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/817 -->



**Manu Sporny:** I am addressing 817 by adding different options to the examples, to show the credential, JWT VC, and JSON_LD proofs.  

(Manu shows the alternative tabs on a shared screen).

**David Chadwick:** This is brilliant Manu. Well done.  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* +1 that's just what was needed.

**Ivan Herman:** this is great. Please continue working on this.  
… can we use the same mechanism in the did specification?.  

**Manu Sporny:** yes, this is a plugin that can be used in any spec.  

> *Dave Longley:* will be a useful plugin for LDI as well.

> *Dave Longley:* great work, awesome plugin..

**David Chadwick:** This is great, thank you -- once this PR is done, we can close the other PR..  

#### 3.4. Clarification of JWT encoding (pr vc-data-model#828)
{: #section3-4}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#828](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/828)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/828 -->



**David Chadwick:** The last time we discussed, I understood -- 2 changes, remove the SHOULD believing that wasn't normative..  
… Last meeting we discussed that perhaps it was, we go back to MAY.  
… TallTed said there were issues in merging, but not substantive, changes to latest version should work there..  
… There is no such thing as a nonce, it's not a claim in JWT, it's a property of the VP, if you want the nonce, you'd move it down into VP claim..  
… I just need Orie to agree that that's the right way to agree to nonce..  

> *Dave Longley:* [https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#NonceNotes](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#NonceNotes) (https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-core-1_0.html#ClaimsContents) <-- OIDC uses "nonce" as a JWT claim ... maybe that should be referenced for the JWT case.

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/jwt.xml](https://www.iana.org/assignments/jwt/jwt.xml) <-- nonce exists here.

**Brent Zundel:** suggested we keep the nonce, and then describe nonce more fully later for all the cases it is present.  

**Manu Sporny:** nonce is defined in OIDC as a valid claim name so we can use it.  
… I think we should add a sentence to described it.  
… The nonce is there to prevent replay attacks.  

### 4. Issue Triage.
{: #section4}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+-label%3Av2.0+-label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+-label%3Av2.0+-label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

**Brent Zundel:** all issues are now triaged.  

### 5. v1.1 Issues.
{: #section5}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22v1.1+%28editorial%29%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

#### 5.1. Does pseudo-anonymity require the issuer to cooperate? (issue vc-data-model#209)
{: #section5-1}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#209](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/209)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/209 -->



> *Brent Zundel:* related to PR #830.

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#830](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/830)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/830 -->



**Brent Zundel:** pr exists for this issue so it will automatically close when pr is merged.  

#### 5.2. Optimized SVG diagrams (issue vc-data-model#721)
{: #section5-2}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#721](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/721)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/721 -->



**Brent Zundel:** this has been partially addressed already.  

**Manu Sporny:** this is difficult. Make the diagrams both optimised and accessible; these are almost mutually incompatible.  

**Ivan Herman:** if you optimise, making them less accessible will be a problem for you.  
… you can add metadata.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [an example for a11y svg](https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub33/core/#flow).

**Ivan Herman:** you still have to give an image description in the text.  

**Manu Sporny:** we should optimise the svg diagram and then write the description of the diagram. If we can do this by year end then it will remain v1.1 otherwise it will have to defer to v2.  
… can we assign this to David Lehn from Digital Bazaar.  

#### 5.3. 4.1 Link to going anywhere that makes sense (issue vc-data-model#732)
{: #section5-3}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#732](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/732)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/732 -->



> *Manu Sporny:* Should be vocab file that's here -- [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/blob/main/vocab/credentials.html](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/blob/main/vocab/credentials.html).

**Manu Sporny:** the link currently goes to an empty directory. It should be the vocabulary file that is displayed.  

**Ivan Herman:** do we want to copy the file or insert a redirect to the above url.  

**Manu Sporny:** I don't expect it to change much at all.  

**Ivan Herman:** manu please email me the file or link and I will put it there.  

> *Brent Zundel:* See [more details](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/732#issuecomment-937027226).

**Manu Sporny:** I suggest we do a redirect so that we don't have to ask W3C staff to make updates should there be any.  
… specifically, [https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/vocab/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-data-model/vocab/).  

> *Brent Zundel:* we need to redirect [https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/](https://www.w3.org/2018/credentials/) to point to [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/blob/main/vocab/](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/blob/main/vocab/).

**Ivan Herman:** will ask the system people to set up a proxy.  

---
