---
layout: minutes
date: 2021-08-25
title: VC WG Telco — 2021-08-25
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2021-08-25-vcwg",
        "name": "VC WG Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "VC WG Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2021-08-25",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2021-08-26",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "VC WG Telco",
            "startDate": "2021-08-25",
            "endDate": "2021-08-25",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "David Chadwick"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Charles Lehner"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Manu Sporny"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Wayne Chang"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# VC WG Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2021-08-25

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-vc-wg/2021Aug/0007.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2021/08/25-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Brent Zundel, Charles Lehner, David Chadwick, Manu Sporny, Wayne Chang

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** David Chadwick

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


### 1. Agenda review
{: #section1}

**Wayne Chang:** Any non-profit that wants expertise on VCs can engage with the chairs or the editors  

### 2. VCWG at TPAC
{: #section2}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2021/GroupMeetings](https://www.w3.org/wiki/TPAC/2021/GroupMeetings)

> *Manu Sporny:* We have the ACLU that would like to engage, should I get back to them and invite? ^^^

> *Manu Sporny:* That's the "Americal Civil Liberties Union"

**Brent Zundel:** We have nothing on the TPAC agenda yet  

### 3. Next VCWG Charter
{: #section3}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/](https://w3c.github.io/vc-wg-charter/)

**Brent Zundel:** charter has been updated to take into account all the comments from the last meeting  
… we are now in a position to share it more broadly  

**Manu Sporny:** Other deliverables is not clear enough yet. The scope of each one is unclear  
… we should add a paragraph describing each one  

### 4. Review PRs
{: #section4}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls)

#### 4.1. Making explicit the binding of the holder to a VC (pr vc-data-model#795)
{: #section4-1}

_See github pull request [#795](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/795)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/795 -->



**Brent Zundel:** this is not errata but is making normative changes  
… so it should be put in 2.0  

**Manu Sporny:** I talked to Steven and he agrees that this PR should be removed and an issue raised to bring it into v2.0  
… Steven has said he will close the PR after he has added this issue for v2.0  

**Brent Zundel:** I am adding the defer v2.0 label  
… now I would like to focus on v1.1 PRs  

#### 4.2. removes mention of termsOfUse with verifiable presentations (pr vc-data-model#787)
{: #section4-2}

_See github pull request [#787](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/787)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/787 -->



**Brent Zundel:** summarised that ToU is said to be in presentations but this is not described properly. ie. there is a bug in the spec  

**Manu Sporny:** approves the merge of this PR and it is after the 14 day review  

#### 4.3. Recode graph diagrams (pr vc-data-model#786)
{: #section4-3}

_See github pull request [#786](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/786)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/786 -->



**Manu Sporny:** unfortunately the next time we update the diagrams it will overwrite the good changes the chaals did  
… there is not a good solution to this because the diagrams are in google.docs but it does not support his changes  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to merge and face consequences

**Manu Sporny:** either it will be difficult to update the diagrams or difficult for some people to read them.  

**Brent Zundel:** is anyone opposed to merging this now?  

> *David Chadwick:* There was no opposition so Manu performed the merge

#### 4.4. Clarified subtitle of Data Model (pr vc-data-model#780)
{: #section4-4}

_See github pull request [#780](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/780)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/780 -->



**Brent Zundel:** the current subtitle is not correct. but we dont have the perfect subtitle yet  

**Manu Sporny:** I agree so we cannot merge yet  

#### 4.5. Vocabulary definition changes (pr vc-data-model#771)
{: #section4-5}

_See github pull request [#771](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/771)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/771 -->



**Brent Zundel:** is this a breaking change or not? Should it be 1.1 or 1.2  

**Manu Sporny:** non of the files that are touched are normative. Its only descriptive text. But if anyone was doing advanced graph processing then everything would break  
… whilst it is safe to make the change now I would prefer to wait for 2.0 just in case someone is doing this advanced RDF processing  
… this change does not affect implementors using JSON or JSON-LD processing, but only those doing graph processing  

### 5. Issue Triage
{: #section5}

**David Chadwick:** It was agreed to change the status of this to Defer to 2.0

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+-label%3A%22substantive+change+v1.2%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc+-label%3Av1.1+-label%3Adefer-v2](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aopen+-label%3A%22substantive+change+v1.2%22+sort%3Aupdated-asc+-label%3Av1.1+-label%3Adefer-v2)

#### 5.1. [PROPOSAL] New specification document title: W3C Consensus-based Data Model Specification for Verifiable Credentials (issue vc-data-model#791)
{: #section5-1}

_See github issue [#791](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/791)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/791 -->



**Brent Zundel:** this is not a 1.1 or 1.2 issue, we should defer to v2.0  

**Manu Sporny:** no W3C spec is titled consensus based, so it will never be accepted  

**Brent Zundel:** Yeah, since the W3C process is consensus-based, this addition to the title would need to be added to all W3C specs  
… and we don't have enough folks here to make the decision anyway  

**Manu Sporny:** I'm fine with us re-visiting this on a v2.0 timeframe.  

**David Chadwick:** all standards are consensus based to the best of my knowledge  

#### 5.2. Explicit reference should be added about binding the VC to the holder (issue vc-data-model#789)
{: #section5-2}

_See github issue [#789](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/789)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/789 -->



> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to defer v2

**Brent Zundel:** this should be defer to v2.0  

> *David Chadwick:* +1

#### 5.3. [PROPOSAL] Spec needs to include a non-JSON/non-JSON-LD example VC binding e.g. JPEG EXIF/XMP (issue vc-data-model#796)
{: #section5-3}

_See github issue [#796](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/796)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/796 -->



> *Manu Sporny:* Suggest deferring to v2.0

**Brent Zundel:** whilst no-one objects to this principle, this is out of scope of our current charter  

#### 5.4. V1 specification doesn't definitively state that the `credentialSubject.id`, if specified, is always the id of the Subject of the Credential (issue vc-data-model#792)
{: #section5-4}

_See github issue [#792](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/792)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/792 -->



> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/792#issuecomment-900283929](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/792#issuecomment-900283929)

**Brent Zundel:** this editorial change could fit into v1.1  

**David Chadwick:** Part of the issue is bearer VC -- understanding who it's attached to -- nobody, everybody, etc.  
… I don't think it covers the "no holder" use case... we should write about "if not specified".  

**Brent Zundel:** Let's do a separate issue for that  

**Manu Sporny:** yes, please.  

#### 5.5. [PRINCIPLED OBJECTION] The VC data model specification 1.0 is not implementable in the ways it appears to be intended based on the text of the current specification document (issue vc-data-model#797)
{: #section5-5}

_See github issue [#797](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/797)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/797 -->



**Brent Zundel:** no PR has been raised to address this issue, so no resolution is currently available  

**Manu Sporny:** we have to record this objection unless the author takes it back.  

**Brent Zundel:** the issue must remain open until some action is taken  

### 6. v1.1 issues
{: #section6}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Av1.1+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3Av1.1+sort%3Aupdated-asc)

#### 6.1. Examples `issuanceDate` is invalid (issue vc-data-model#736)
{: #section6-1}

_See github issue [#736](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/736)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/736 -->



> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/736](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/736)

**Manu Sporny:** this has been addressed by 737 so it should be closed now  

#### 6.2. Bug in the credential vocabulary specification (issue vc-data-model#770)
{: #section6-2}

_See github issue [#770](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/770)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/770 -->



> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/770](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/770)

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to defer v2

**Brent Zundel:** label this defer to v2.0  

#### 6.3. Some example credential types not defined in example context (issue vc-data-model#750)
{: #section6-3}

_See github issue [#750](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/750)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/750 -->



> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/750](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/750)

**Brent Zundel:** there is a PR that has been merged to cover this  

> *Manu Sporny:* DavidC: We should take the same approach for all of them.

**Manu Sporny:** we should have put the word example in front of all these and added them to the example `@context`  

**Brent Zundel:** is anyone opposed to closing this particular issue?  

> *David Chadwick:* none

**Brent Zundel:** i will email everyone with proposed meeting times  

---
