---
layout: minutes
date: 2023-06-14
title: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Weekly Teleconference — 2023-06-14
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2023-06-14-vcwg",
        "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Weekly Teleconference — Minutes",
        "about": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Weekly Teleconference",
        "dateCreated": "2023-06-14",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2023-06-14",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Weekly Teleconference",
            "startDate": "2023-06-14",
            "endDate": "2023-06-14",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Kristina Yasuda"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Orie Steele"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Kevin Griffin"
                        },
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Manu Sporny"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brent Zundel"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ivan Herman"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Prorock"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Hiroyuki Sano"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Michael Jones"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Chris Abernethy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Phil Feairheller"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Chadwick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Andres Uribe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Mircea Nistor"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Will Abramson"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shawn Butterfield"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Lehn"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Gabe Cohen"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Marty Reed"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Verifiable Credentials Working Group Weekly Teleconference — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2023-06-14

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/ae05a21b-c065-4e69-8d5e-352a0d391513/20230614T11000) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2023/06/14-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Brent Zundel, Ivan Herman, Michael Prorock, Hiroyuki Sano, Michael Jones, Chris Abernethy, Orie Steele, Phil Feairheller, Ted Thibodeau Jr., David Chadwick, Andres Uribe, Kristina Yasuda, Mircea Nistor, Joe Andrieu, Manu Sporny, Kevin Griffin, Will Abramson, Dave Longley, Shawn Butterfield, David Lehn, Gabe Cohen, Marty Reed

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Kristina Yasuda

**Scribe(s):** Orie Steele, Kevin Griffin, Manu Sporny

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


> *Orie Steele:* I can scribe.

**Kristina Yasuda:** agenda PR and issue dicussion.  
… any introductions?  

### 1. status update, PRs.
{: #section1}

> *Kristina Yasuda:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+-label%3A%22pending+close%22+-label%3Adiscuss+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Apr+-label%3A%22pending+close%22+-label%3Adiscuss+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

> *Manu Sporny:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls).

**Manu Sporny:** VCDM PRs we have pulls open, 1054 marked pending close, moving to CCG what is the status? Oliver is on vacation though.  

> *Orie Steele:* I opened PRs to prepare to do all that .

> *Orie Steele:* The PRs I opened can't be merged until all that happens.

**Manu Sporny:** Are we adding an entry to reserve holder binding. Manus understanding was to create a CCG work item and then add to the reserved terms and then close 1054.  
… we still need to CCG item, but we can do the rest in parallel.  

#### 1.1. Add issue marker for holder binding (pr vc-data-model#1141)
{: #section1-1}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1141](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1141)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1141 -->



**Michael Prorock:** suggest we merge first, bikeshed naming and properties second.  

**Dave Longley:** this is not bike shedding, its data modeling... in the information graph.  
… id is a special property that has specific behavior.  
… because of JSON-LD this could impact selective disclosure.  
… its not just about picking a name.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** ask for a special topic call if you need it.  

**Manu Sporny:** its not bikeshedding, there are design considerations that effect JSON-LD selective disclosure.  
… the SRI format is different, its not what SRI does... we should either align with SRI or align with something else.  
… there are design considerations that effect selective disclosure in JSON-LD nquads.  

> *Ivan Herman:* See [Subresource integrity spec:](https://www.w3.org/TR/SRI/).

**Manu Sporny:** I am reviewing the PR now.  
… people are requesting discussion.  

**Orie Steele:** You're open to open a PR to follow best practice.  

> *Orie Steele:* AFAIK there is no bar, right now.

> *Orie Steele:* no consensus on any bar afaik.

#### 1.2. Update reservation table #1142 (pr vc-data-model#1142)
{: #section1-2}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1142](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1142)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1142 -->

**Orie Steele:** 1142 reserves the confidenceMethod in the JSON-LD Context and adds the confidence method as a JSON member and adds same at-risk reservation dependency. I added a link that we expect to not be 404. Under render, I attempted to link to document that is furthest along wrt. renderMethod. Not transferred to CCG yet. This one adds links and at risk ffeature can read specs.  

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1140](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1140)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1140 -->



**Manu Sporny:** What's 1140 about?  

**Orie Steele:** Pull 1141 adds an issue marker about debating this particular property and whether we will reserve these things in the core context. This is saying same thing as reserved properties, focuses on property in core context. If we merge other PR, then this issue marker would still remain and at some point confidenceMethod could be removed. That would be the reason to leave issue marker in... never anything documented for this extension point.  

#### 1.3. Request vp media type (pr vc-data-model#1144)
{: #section1-3}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1144](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1144)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1144 -->



**Manu Sporny:** pull 1144 adds a media type for vps.  
… expect that to merge soon.  

#### 1.4. Add graph node identifiers for registered claims (pr vc-data-model#1149)
{: #section1-4}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1149](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1149)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1149 -->



**Manu Sporny:** pull 1149 has questions.  
… vc data integrity.  

#### 1.5. Update controller document reference (pr vc-data-integrity#99)
{: #section1-5}

_See github pull request [vc-data-integrity#99](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-integrity/pull/99)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-integrity/99 -->



**Manu Sporny:** data integrity has 1 pr on it.  
… manu we think did core will point to data integrity, there are changes requested.  
… there are no prs on vc-di-eddsa.  

#### 1.6. https://github.com/w3c/vc-di-ecdsa/pulls.
{: #section1-6}

**Manu Sporny:** there are 3 prs on vc-di-ecdsa, we plan to merge all these.  
… noting we have not been processing the specs dir stuff.  

#### 1.7. Add "Media Type Extensions" category. (pr vc-specs-dir#14)
{: #section1-7}

_See github pull request [vc-specs-dir#14](https://github.com/w3c/vc-specs-dir/pull/14)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-specs-dir/14 -->



**Manu Sporny:** there is 1 pr to add a media types extensions category.  
… we don't plan on merging this, or closing it, until we discuss other media types.  
… and transformations.  

**joe:** i think the notion of the directory, is that any related specs can go there... don't understand why its blocked.  

**Manu Sporny:** you are correct, the vc specs dir can have anything you want.  
… we were contemplating adding a media type section, for other people to register transformations...  
… we could put transformations in this vc specs dir.  
… media types are not RDF predicates or types, so we don't understand how to support them.  

**joe:** seems like we will have media types to related to vcs and schema.  

> *Kristina Yasuda:* no open PRs for [https://github.com/w3c/vc-di-eddsa/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-di-eddsa/pulls).

**joe:** there are 4 open PRs for status lists.  

#### 1.8. Ensure that statusListCredential can be dereferenced. (pr vc-status-list-2021#46)
{: #section1-8}

_See github pull request [vc-status-list-2021#46](https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pull/46)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-status-list-2021/46 -->



**joe:** first 1 is 46.  
… this was waiting for responses.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** mike please review the PR.  

#### 1.9. Support for multiple status codes (pr vc-status-list-2021#65)
{: #section1-9}

_See github pull request [vc-status-list-2021#65](https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pull/65)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-status-list-2021/65 -->



**Manu Sporny:** support for multiple status codes... 108 comments so far, revisions requested and made.  

**Michael Prorock:** we have implementations of this.  
… I need to review the latest change requests.  
… some cleanup.  
… kristina are you asking about size?  
… I can incorporate your feedback.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** i made comments, prefer to have the first few status codes always be the same.  
… there should be no need to sniff content.  

**Michael Prorock:** this is about attaching status to credential, not verification instructions.  
… there are a lot of existing status tables, we can't mandate bit codes, or we break interop with those.  
… the intention of this PR was to align with existing regulatory coding schemes.  

> *Dave Longley:* it seems like maybe this isn't the right primitive ... it's a different type of thing in some slight way?

**Kristina Yasuda:** lets take it offline, its a question on where we expect the work to be done, and by who.  

> *Manu Sporny:* +1 to kristina, this feels problematic.

> *Manu Sporny:* (from a complexity standpoint).

**Dave Longley:** I have similar concerns with kristina, maybe there is a different primitive we should be using.  

**Manu Sporny:** seems like a call is needed.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** do we need a call?  

**Michael Prorock:** i'm happy to talk folks through the use cases.  
… there seems to be confusion over what the credentialStatus feature is meant to represent.  

#### 1.10. Add digital bazaar credential examples (pr vc-status-list-2021#67)
{: #section1-10}

_See github pull request [vc-status-list-2021#67](https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pull/67)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-status-list-2021/67 -->



> *Dave Longley:* yeah, i think credential status has already been a part of "verification", so +1 to sort that out.

**Manu Sporny:** this is an example, I updated the digital bazaar remote script to fix the JSON-LD document loader in the spec.  
… it should be fine, but we wrote a plugin for the spec.  
… should we move the open source tool to the ccg, or the vcwg.  
… its the thing that *does the mapping*.  
… its a general issue accross all our repos.  

#### 1.11. chore: update title and urls to contexts (pr vc-status-list-2021#69)
{: #section1-11}

_See github pull request [vc-status-list-2021#69](https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pull/69)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-status-list-2021/69 -->



**Manu Sporny:** this modifies the context and data types and things.  
… i suggest implementers should review, this is a big set of breaking changes.  
… I plan to request changes, and make sure that this is something we want to do.  
… it impacts JSON ONLY processing in a negative way.  
… it looks simple but its related to RDF data processing.  

**Orie Steele:** There are several open PRs on vc-jwt, I will merge anything with positive reviews after 1 week.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** lets do issues.  

### 2. Issues.
{: #section2}

> *Kristina Yasuda:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

**Kristina Yasuda:** we are going to go through all issues.  

#### 2.1. Question about verifiable presentations (issue vc-data-model#996)
{: #section2-1}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#996](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/996)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/996 -->



**Kristina Yasuda:** this seems like a question, and should be marked as such.  
… can we mark issues that won't change the spec is some way that saves working group time?  

**Brent Zundel:** the question has been answered it should be marked pending close.  

**Manu Sporny:** we have not answered the question, I suggest we delete the sentence that causes confusion.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** i agree, we should delete the sentence, and mark this as ready for PR.  

#### 2.2. (Editorial) systematically adding an anchor to each property (issue vc-data-model#1080)
{: #section2-2}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1080](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1080)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1080 -->



**Kristina Yasuda:** add anchor to each property.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 after CR.

**Kristina Yasuda:** ok, lets mark after CR.  

**Ivan Herman:** in a sense its bound to the discussion yesterday on 1103.  
… if we want to elevate the vocabulary to normative, it will require editing.  
… and then we would need to move text around.  
… for me to do this, I need anchors.  
… so this blocks the normative issues with the vocabulary and context.  

> *Michael Prorock:* +1 ivan - may have impacts on normative.

**Kristina Yasuda:** do you have an issue number?  

**Orie Steele:** You don't need anchor tags to reserve URLs, it's common for anchors to not reserve. Agree that proper way to do this is to anchor, we're not doing that already, if we want to make progress on other items, people will need the time to focus on other items. Adding anchor tags on everything feels like less important than other PRs.  

**Ivan Herman:** When we move to CR, then the documents have to go through all kinds of publication checking and the link checker will shout at us if we use links that don't resolve.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** we can do it right before CR.  

#### 2.3. Determine interoperable way for Holder to make claims directly in VPs (issue vc-data-model#860)
{: #section2-3}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#860](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/860)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/860 -->



**Joe Andrieu:** I think we don't have 2 implementations of this.  
… will other people implement this.  
… this issue requests definition for a property about other properties.  
… there is a use case for requesting citizenship documents by providing suplemental credentials.  
… bascially repeat the concept of credentialSubject for holderClaims...  
… there is some conversation on it, I think you can always use an unsigned vC.  

**Orie Steele:** Just a comment on normative requirements, proof is optional, party can include additional fields by relying on JSON-LD context, you don't need two independent implementations to achieve this, you can use reserved terms, if W3C doesn't reserve terms, won't matter in context of standards, if govt. processing, they determine those terms.  

**David Chadwick:** I noticed a similar requirement a couple months ago, but we never presented at the face to face.  
… I will point to the definition we had for this feature.  
… I have defined examples, maybe we have the same idea, take a look at the slides.  
… the slides are follow on related to holder binding.  

**Dave Longley:** seems like the verifier won't accept arbitrary properties.  
… seems like an additional credential use case.  
… where the holder issuers a self asserted credential.  
… and then the verifier will process self signed credentials from the holder wallet.  

> *Michael Jones:* I approved status-list PR #46 with [https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pull/46#pullrequestreview-1479814962](https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pull/46#pullrequestreview-1479814962).

**Dave Longley:** i think we have the tools to make this happen, we don't need new reserved W3C terms.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** maybe leave a comment regarding the proposed paths forward.  

**Joe:** DavidC can you leave a comment on the issue, unless there is something to fight for, we should close it.  

**Kristina Yasuda:** thanks all.  

> *David Chadwick:* see [https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/F2F/VCWG_Miami_F2F_2023.pdf](https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/F2F/VCWG_Miami_F2F_2023.pdf).

**Kristina Yasuda:** please review PRs and issues outside of call time.  
… next week's special topic call will be status list codes, or 1100 1101 PRs regarding mapping and content types.  

> *David Chadwick:* Slides are titled Alt Holder Binding.

---
