---
layout: minutes
date: 2023-06-07
title: Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — 2023-06-07
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": [
            "https://schema.org",
            {
                "resolution": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/resolution",
                    "@context": {
                        "@vocab": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/"
                    }
                },
                "irc": {
                    "@id": "https://w3c.github.io/scribejs/vocab/irc"
                }
            }
        ],
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://www.w3.org/2017/vc/WG/Meetings/Minutes/2023-06-07-vcwg",
        "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2023-06-07",
        "irc": "vcwg",
        "datePublished": "2023-06-08",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2023-06-07",
            "endDate": "2023-06-07",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Brent Zundel"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Phil Feairheller"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Chris Abernethy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Andres Uribe"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Orie Steele"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dave Longley"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Joe Andrieu"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "David Chadwick"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Shigeya Suzuki"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Dmitri Zagidulin"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ted Thibodeau Jr."
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Kristina Yasuda"
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# Verifiable Credentials Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2023-06-07

See also the [Agenda](https://www.w3.org/events/meetings/36ecd2da-2ec3-4012-b74a-72546ab352f4/20230607T150000/) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2023/06/07-vcwg-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Brent Zundel, Chris Abernethy, Andres Uribe, Orie Steele, Dave Longley, Joe Andrieu, David Chadwick, Shigeya Suzuki, Phil Feairheller, Dmitri Zagidulin, Ted Thibodeau Jr., Kristina Yasuda

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** 

**Chair:** Brent Zundel

**Scribe(s):** Phil Feairheller

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Brent Zundel:** Agenda today: Work item status updates, PRs, Triage issues.  
… Categorize items as before or after CR or closed.  

### 1. Work Item status updates/PRs.
{: #section1}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Adiscuss](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aopen+label%3Adiscuss).

**Brent Zundel:** Question for the group, do we feel that consensus is possible here?  
… on issues 1100 and 1101.  

#### 1.1. Media types other than vc+ld+json (pr vc-data-model#1100)
{: #section1-1}

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1100](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1100)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1100 -->



**Dave Longley:** We are missing key players to discuss today. Probably should not discuss today.  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 people are not here.

**Brent Zundel:** Agreed we are missing key players, moving on.  
… beginning the HR process. Preparing documents to engage other groups.  

> *Ted Thibodeau Jr.:* I don't know why those key players are absent today, but I might suggest including mention of these PRs in the next agenda, so there's advance warning that they will be discussed (and so encouraging those folks to prioritize attendance)?

#### 1.2. JWT PRs.
{: #section1-2}

**Orie Steele:** There are 2 new PRs on VC-JWT, 103 and 104.  

_See github pull request [vc-jwt#103](https://github.com/w3c/vc-jwt/pull/103)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-jwt/103 -->



_See github pull request [vc-jwt#104](https://github.com/w3c/vc-jwt/pull/104)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-jwt/104 -->



**Orie Steele:** There are 2 new PRs on VC-JWT, 103 and 104.  

_See github pull request [vc-data-model#1144](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/pull/1144)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1144 -->



**Orie Steele:** PRs up in the core data model 1144.  

> *Phillip Long:* pdl-ASU has joined #vcwg.

**Joe Andrieu:** Added a comment to 103. Would it be useful to reuse the pattern for VCs. A base media type plus securing?  
… both securing mechanisms will need a payload with a common basis.  

> *Dmitri Zagidulin:* +1 Joe, I was wondering about that as well.

> *Orie Steele:* correct, that is what it is doing.

**Dave Longley:** agrees it is following the same pattern.  

**Orie Steele:** talking about confidence method in registry.  

> *Dave Longley:* +1 to adding confidence method to the reserved terms table + v2 context, sounds good.

**Brent Zundel:** 9 open PRs, please review and look thru them.  
… moving on to final topic, issues.  

**Ted Thibodeau Jr.:** suggest that we call out specific issues and PRs in agenda ahead of time.  

> *Orie Steele:* There are also several open PRs here: [https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pulls](https://github.com/w3c/vc-status-list-2021/pulls) which can be discussed.

### 2. Issue Triage.
{: #section2}

> *Brent Zundel:* [https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+sort%3Aupdated-asc).

#### 2.1. Support for SD-JWT (issue vc-data-model#1019)
{: #section2-1}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1019](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1019)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1019 -->



**Brent Zundel:** Discuss issue 1019.  

**Joe Andrieu:** Thinks it would be hard to discuss this without Kristina's input.  

> *Orie Steele:* +1 to closing the issue, it's being resolved elsewhere.

**David Chadwick:** Has this been superseded by Oliver's email requesting this has been moved to a work item with some positive replies on the working group.  

**Brent Zundel:** talking into mute.  

> *Andres Uribe:* +1 to close as well.

**Brent Zundel:** agreement that this needs to be done but not here. So should be pending close as its being done elsewhere.  

**David Chadwick:** I'm happy with it being pending closed.  

> *Phillip Long:* +1 to mark it pending closed.

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 to close.

> *Orie Steele:* +1 David.

**Brent Zundel:** Marking issue as pending closed.  

#### 2.2. Describe SD-JWT as an alternative for selective disclosure (issue vc-data-model#908)
{: #section2-2}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#908](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/908)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/908 -->



> *David Chadwick:* Please add a reference to Oliver's proposed work item.

**Brent Zundel:** Issue raised by Sebastian, current assigned to Kristina. Is this work that should be done before we go into CR?  

> *Orie Steele:* Suggest this issue be closed, that work is happening in other working groups.

**Joe Andrieu:** since the W3C isn't doing this work, we should move this into the directory of related work and mark pending close.  

**Brent Zundel:** Going to mark issue pending close.  

**Joe Andrieu:** Someone has to move it, right. Have to capture that task.  

> *Orie Steele:* nobody needs to add it though... people can list their work there... if they want to.

> *Joe Andrieu:* agreed, Orie. Just seemed like the right resolution of the issue.

#### 2.3. Indicating Encrypted VCs in VPs (issue vc-data-model#938)
{: #section2-3}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#938](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/938)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/938 -->



**Brent Zundel:** Issue 938 raised by and assigned to DavidC.  

**David Chadwick:** what are people wanting here?  
… what i want is some way to indicate to the recipient that the VCs are actually encrypted and maybe how.  
… helpful hint.  

> *Orie Steele:* encryption is out of scope for this working group.

> *Orie Steele:* or has been... to date.

**Joe Andrieu:** there are many different ways to do this. That makes it a claim design issue. Either claim by claim or entire VC.  

> *Andres Uribe:* Also having the entire VP encrypted.

**David Chadwick:** This is for the entire VC being encrypted.  
… talking about app to app encryption. We should define one recognized best way to do this.  

> *Orie Steele:* In JWTs, you check the header for that information.

**Brent Zundel:** sounds like interest in pursuing this. May require some normative guidance. Mark this as before CR.  

**Joe Andrieu:** Want to suggest quick fix. What if we add a pattern that has a "encryptedCredential" property and define that in the context.  
… But that's not a valid VC, never mind.  

> *Orie Steele:* suggest not doing anything with this... we don't need to add more JSON-LD terms.

**David Chadwick:** any VC in your wallet may be encrypted. When you send it to the verifier that it is encrypted and be able to present in the Presentation.  

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 to that approach.

> *Orie Steele:* encrypting a presentation is different than encrypting a credential.

**Dave Longley:** Add a property that indicates an encrypted VC referencing JWE. Expected payload would be JWEs.  
… Add a PR to add that property.  

**Brent Zundel:** Mark as before CR and move on.  

**David Chadwick:** asking to talk about 1102 which is now marked pending close.  

#### 2.4. Single Extension Point (issue vc-data-model#1102)
{: #section2-4}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1102](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1102)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1102 -->



**Brent Zundel:** now talking about 1102. Was discussed and no one liked the idea so it was marked pending close.  

**David Chadwick:** Each of the extension points only get in if there are implementations but that the definitions could change.  
… we already have a class of extension which have impls and have a unique URI.  
… if we have the concept of a single extension point and all others have their own URI but be under the single extension point.  
… don't need the outer wrapper.  
… if you have vague extensions that don't fit specific items like "TermsOfUse" you don't know where to put it.  

> *Orie Steele:* David, we've made this easy for developers by bundling everything into the JSON-LD context.

**David Chadwick:** a single point makes it easier for developers to propose future extensions.  

> *Orie Steele:* We kinda already do have the concept of a single extension point... its called `@context`, and nobody understands it, and its values are not normative.

> *Orie Steele:* You just need to learn how to use JSON-LD to write conformant extensions, which is super easy.

**Brent Zundel:** chair hat off, I would not be in favor of this change. It is not less confusing. Implementers have a small set of extension points that are well define is the better option.  
… chair hat on, we have recorded that several members have said they would not be in favor of the change. Likely no consensus.  

**Joe Andrieu:** +1 to all that, would also be opposed. Open ended extension mechanism exists in @context.  
… agree with Mike Jones it feels more complicated having them all in one bucket.  

**David Chadwick:** looking for technical reasons and haven't heard any.  
… just that people don't like it.  

> *Orie Steele:* technical reason, we already have an open ended json-ld way to do this, adding another makes our spec even harder for people to understand or use.

> *Orie Steele:* the fact that its not obvious that json-ld solves this, is shocking to me, given our entire data model assumes we are experts at JSON-LD.

> *Orie Steele:* +1 joe.

**Joe Andrieu:** one of the technical arguments is that this mechanism already exists in `@context`.  

**Brent Zundel:** it is clear, there is no path to consensus. Question to DavidC: do you plan to formally object is we close the issue?  

**David Chadwick:** No I would not.  
… would appreciate more technical arguments.  

**Dave Longley:** If you want some incubation for your idea, create an extension in the @context that is a generic extension.  

**David Chadwick:** Thank you Dave, that is a good idea.  

**Brent Zundel:** Issue 959 back on the table.  

#### 2.5. Clarification needed on the ease of deducing that a subject is the holder. (issue vc-data-model#959)
{: #section2-5}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#959](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/959)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/959 -->



**Brent Zundel:** current assigned to Orie.  
… it is marked ready for PR, Orie what is the status?  

**Orie Steele:** Joe pointed out that we already have this in a section in the spec. Willing to compare current section with this issue. Should be current CR work.  

**Brent Zundel:** Adding before CR label to issue.  

#### 2.6. Clarifying credential from verifiable credential (issue vc-data-model#1009)
{: #section2-6}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#1009](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/1009)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/1009 -->



**Brent Zundel:** moving to issue 1009, assigned to Manu, DavidC and Kristina.  
… wonder if this has been overtaken by events. How should we mark before or post CR?  

> *Orie Steele:* Suggest closing this, the group has essentially resolved there is no difference.

> *Orie Steele:* There is not spec legal way to distinguish between credential and verifiable credential.

**David Chadwick:** this needs someone to carefully go through current version and ensure use of credential or verifiable credential are proper and submit editorial change.  

> *Orie Steele:* indeed, the base media type explains that you never know.

**Joe Andrieu:** Appreciate the clarification. Agrees the language in the spec is confusing.  

**Orie Steele:** +1 to what Joe said. Base media type does not talk about securing mechanism.  

**Brent Zundel:** suggests to make this as post CR.  

**Orie Steele:** this may effect normative statements. esp the definition of what a proof is. Must be addressed before CR.  

**Brent Zundel:** adding before CR label.  

#### 2.7. ManualRefreshService2018 - what exactly is it? (issue vc-data-model#981)
{: #section2-7}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#981](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/981)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/981 -->



**Brent Zundel:** moving on to 981, assigned to Manu, marked as ready for PR.  

> *Orie Steele:* I tried fixing this, Manu need to fix : /.

> *Dave Longley:* +1 for Manu to fix.

**Brent Zundel:** will leave it for Manu to fix. Editorial so can add post CR label.  
… marking issue as post CR.  

#### 2.8. Clarify credentialStatus (issue vc-data-model#991)
{: #section2-8}

_See github issue [vc-data-model#991](https://github.com/w3c/vc-data-model/issues/991)._

<!-- issue w3c/vc-data-model/991 -->



**Brent Zundel:** next issue 991, to discuss label. raised by and assigned to DavidC.  

**Orie Steele:** We have a separate work item for credential status. This issue seems overtaken by events with open PRs. Close this PR and go over to that work item.  

> *Orie Steele:* I suggest closing this issue.

**Brent Zundel:** suggestion is to move this item to status list repo.  

> *Orie Steele:* and instead reviewing the open PRs on that work item.

> *Orie Steele:* (you don't).

**Joe Andrieu:** that is not correct. Does seem to be about a specific status mechanism.  

> *Orie Steele:* there are not 2 objects, we spent over month on this.

> *Dave Longley:* +1 just one object.

**David Chadwick:** There are 2 objects, credential and verifiable credential and now talking about the status is "mixed up" as well.  
… one could be valid while the other is invalid and vice versa.  

> *Brent Zundel:* +1 just one object.

> *Joe Andrieu:* +1 just one object, but this is the layering problem.

> *Orie Steele:* It seems http range 14 is yet again, disrupting our ability to communicate.

**Dave Longley:** key revocation at the crypto layer is different than at the credential layer.  
… key revocation and credential revocation are different things.  

**Joe Andrieu:** We don't have separate items in our work. We have just one digital thing.  

> *Orie Steele:* joe is correct, and the digital thing, may or may not have any integrity protection.

**David Chadwick:** Driver's license is my credential (and I've been driving for a long time).  

**Joe Andrieu:** There are three layers here. Different between having driven, the physical license and a digital thing.  
… we don't have good language differentiating these three things.  

**David Chadwick:** Yes it is difficult to talk about.  

**Dave Longley:** there can a validity period on a proof (expressed via internal / external proof securing mechanism), a validity period on the VC, and a validity period expressed in a claim about a license that someone possesses ... all different things.  
all works with 1 VC object.

---
